Update schema and types docs (#1800)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/pages/learn/schema.mdx

2. We select the `hero` field on that
3. For the object returned by `hero`, we select the `name` and `appearsIn` fields

Because the shape of a GraphQL query closely matches the result, we can predict what the query will return without knowing that much about the server. But it's useful to have an exact description of the data we can request. For example, what fields can we select? What kinds of objects might they return? What fields are available on those sub-objects?

That's where the schema comes in. Every GraphQL service defines a set of types that completely describe the set of possible data we can query on that service. Then, when requests come in, they are validated and executed against that schema.

## Type language

> GraphQL services can be written in any language and there are different approaches you can take when defining the types in a schema. Some libraries require that you only write the _resolver functions_ that provide data for the different fields in the API, then compile the schema based on that code. Other libraries allow you to define types and fields using what's commonly called the _schema definition language_ (or SDL) and then write the resolver functions for the corresponding fields separately.

Reviewer: Many libraries support more than one way of defining schemas, and there are many different approaches than implementation-first or SDL-first. This edit attempts to capture more of the possibilities to whet the appetite. (I started with the way that graphql-js primarily supports - i.e. creating class instances.)

Do you think this is too much content though?

```suggestion
GraphQL services can be written in any language and there are many different approaches you can take when defining the types in a schema. Some libraries have you construct the schema types, fields, and resolver functions together through traditional code. Some libraries allow you to define types and fields more ergonomically using what's commonly called the _schema definition language_ (or SDL) and then write the _resolver functions_ for the corresponding fields separately. Some libraries allow you to write and annotate the resolver functions, then infer the schema from that. Some libraries may even infer both the types and resolvers for you, based on some underlying datasource(s).
```

Author: Perhaps with this many options we should break it up into a bulleted list:

> GraphQL services can be written in any language and there are many different approaches you can take when defining the types in a schema:
> 
> - Some libraries have you construct the schema types, fields, and [resolver functions](/learn/execution/) together using the same language that was used to write the GraphQL implementation.
> - Some libraries allow you to define types and fields more ergonomically using what's commonly called the _schema definition language_ (or SDL) and then write the resolver functions for the corresponding fields separately.
> - Some libraries allow you to write and annotate the resolver functions, and then infer the schema from that.
> - Some libraries may even infer both the types and resolver functions for you, based on some underlying data source(s).

Reviewer: Sounds like a good idea! I'd change "language" to "programming language" in the first bullet.

Since we can't rely on a specific programming language to discuss GraphQL schemas in this guide, we'll use SDL because it's similar to the query language that we've seen so far and allows us to talk about GraphQL schemas in a language-agnostic way.

## Object types and fields

> The most basic components of a GraphQL schema are [Object types](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Objects), which just represent a kind of object you can fetch from your service, and what fields it has. In SDL, we represent it like this:

Reviewer: Trivia: the spec never refers to "SDL" itself but instead [uses the term "IDL"](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sel-DAHJCAACCyBpge). That said, it uses the term "type system definition language" in a number of places, so I think the use of "SDL" is fine (though we generally see this as expanding to "_schema_ definition language", a phrase which also does not occur in the GraphQL spec).

Author: I was on the fence about using "SDL" for this reason but I ended up introducing it on this page because it is so ubiquitous outside of the spec, so I thought it might be best for clarity's sake. Do you think it would be helpful to indicate that this is a common term (not a spec term) or is that too much information at this point?

Reviewer: I think what you have is fine, truly this was just trivia. Thank you for thinking about it! (Perhaps the first time we use the term "SDL" we could says something like "colloquially known as SDL"? No big deal either way.)

}
```

The language is readable, but let's go over it so that we can have a shared vocabulary:

- `Character` is a GraphQL Object type, meaning it's a type with some fields. Most of the types in your schema will be Object types.
- `name` and `appearsIn` are fields on the `Character` type. That means that `name` and `appearsIn` are the only fields that can appear in any part of a GraphQL query that operates on the `Character` type.
- `String` is one of the built-in Scalar types. These are types that resolve to a single scalar value and can't have sub-selections in the query. We'll go over Scalar types more later.
- `String!` means that the field is a Non-Null type, meaning the GraphQL service promises to give you a value whenever you query this field. In SDL, we represent those with an exclamation mark.

> - `[Episode!]!` represents an List type of `Episode` objects. When a List is Non-Null, you can always expect an array (with zero or more items) when you query the `appearsIn` field. In this case, since `Episode!` is also Non-Null within the list, you can always expect every item in the array to be an `Episode` object.

Reviewer: Do you not feel that the italic helps with clarifying which term it is that we're actually defining in our vocabulary?

Author: It felt like there was a lot going on visually with all of the code text and the italic formatting in the bullets, but maybe it makes sense to add anchor links around the terms to where they are defined in the sections below?

Reviewer: That sounds like a good compromise :+1:

}
```

All arguments are named. Unlike languages such as JavaScript and Python where functions take a list of ordered arguments, all arguments in GraphQL are passed by name specifically. In this case, the `length` field has one defined argument called `unit`.

Arguments can be either required or optional. When an argument is optional, we can define a _default value_. If the `unit` argument is not passed, then it will be set to `METER` by default.

### The Query, Mutation, and Subscription types

Every GraphQL schema must support `query` operations. The _entry point_ for this [root operation type](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Root-Operation-Types) is a regular Object type called `Query` by default. So if you see a query that looks like this:

```graphql
# { "graphiql": true }
{
  droid(id: "2000") {
    name
  }
}
```

That means that the GraphQL service needs to have a `Query` type with a `droid` field:

```graphql
type Query {
  droid(id: ID!): Droid
}
```

Schemas may also support `mutation` and `subscription` operations by adding additional `Mutation` and `Subscription` types and then defining fields on the corresponding root operation types.

> It's important to remember that apart from the special status of being entry points into the schema, the `Query`, `Mutation`, and `Subscription` types are the same as any other GraphQL Object type, and their fields work exactly the same way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to remember that other than the special status of being entry points into the schema, the `Query`, `Mutation`, and `Subscription` types are the same as any other GraphQL Object type, and their fields work exactly the same way.
```

}
```

We know this because those fields don't have any sub-fields—they are the leaves of the query.

GraphQL comes with a set of [default Scalar types](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Scalars.Built-in-Scalars) out of the box:

- `Int`: A signed 32‐bit integer.
- `Float`: A signed double-precision floating-point value.
- `String`: A UTF‐8 character sequence.
- `Boolean`: `true` or `false`.

> - `ID`: This type represents a unique identifier, often used to refetch an object or as the key for a cache. The `ID` type is serialized in the same way as a `String`; however, defining it as an `ID` signifies that it is not intended to be human‐readable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ID`: A unique identifier, often used to refetch an object or as the key for a cache. The `ID` type is serialized in the same way as a `String`; however, defining it as an `ID` signifies that it is not intended to be human‐readable.
```

This means that wherever we use the type `Episode` in our schema, we expect it to be exactly one of `NEWHOPE`, `EMPIRE`, or `JEDI`.

<Callout type="info">GraphQL service implementations in various languages will have a language-specific way of dealing with Enum types. In languages that support enums as a first-class citizen, the implementation might take advantage of that; in a language like JavaScript with no enum support, these values might be internally mapped to a set of integers. However, these details don't leak out to the client, which can operate entirely in terms of the string names of the Enum type's values.</Callout>

## Type modifiers

> Types are assumed to be nullable and singular by default in GraphQL. However, when you use these named types in a schema (or in [query variable declarations](/learn/queries/#variables)) you can apply additional _type modifiers_ that will affect the validation of those values.

Reviewer: I know `validation` was the previous text... but saying something is a list of int rather than an int doesn't just change its validation, it changes its actual meaning, right?

```suggestion
Types are assumed to be nullable and singular by default in GraphQL. However, when you use these named types in a schema (or in [query variable declarations](/learn/queries/#variables)) you can apply additional _type modifiers_ that will affect the meaning of those values.
```

As we saw with the Object type example above, GraphQL supports two type modifiers—the [List](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-List) and [Non-Null](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-List) types—and they can be used individually or in combination with each other.

### Non-Null

Let's look at an example:

```graphql
type Character {
  name: String!
}
```

> Here, we're using a `String` type and marking it as a Non-Null type by adding an exclamation mark (`!`) after the type name. This means that our server always expects to return a non-null value for this field, and if it receives a null value, then that will trigger a GraphQL execution error, letting the client know that something has gone wrong.

Reviewer: The field resolver receives arguments and produces a result, we're talking about the result here so thinking of "the field produces" (rather than "GraphQL receives from the field") I think would be helpful.

```suggestion
Here, we're using a `String` type and marking it as a Non-Null type by adding an exclamation mark (`!`) after the type name. This means that our server always expects to return a non-null value for this field, and if the resolver produces a null value, then that will trigger a GraphQL execution error, letting the client know that something has gone wrong.
```

As we saw in an example above, the Non-Null type modifier can also be used when defining arguments for a field, which will cause the GraphQL server to return a validation error if a null value is passed as that argument:

```graphql
# { "graphiql": true }
{
  droid(id: null) {
    name
  }
}
```

> ### Lists

Reviewer: For consistency with Non-Null, this should be singular:

```suggestion
### List
```

}
```

You can see that both of these types have all of the fields from the `Character` Interface type, but also bring in extra fields—`totalCredits`, `starships` and `primaryFunction`—that are specific to that particular type of character.

Interface types are useful when you want to return an object or set of objects, but those might be of several different types. For example, note that the following query produces an error:

```graphql
# { "graphiql": true }
{

>   hero(episode: JEDI) {

Reviewer: I've noticed you've removed variables from a number of the examples and I appreciate that this simplifies the examples, but I worry that this encourages people to inline values and leads them down the path of concatenation to form GraphQL queries (rather than using static queries). By using variables in our examples, I feel that we're modelling best practices and subtly encouraging users to do the same. What do you think?

Author: My thinking here was that because #1802 swaps the order of this page in the left nav so that it comes before the operation-related content that it might be confusing to use the variable syntax here until that concept is introduced on the next page.

Reviewer: I'm okay with that; thank you for sharing the reasoning :+1:

}
```

Interface types may also implement other Interface types:

```graphql
interface Node {
  id: ID!
}

interface Character implements Node {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  friends: [Character]
  appearsIn: [Episode]!
}
```

Note that Interface types may not implement themselves or contain any cyclic references to each other.

<Callout type="info">While types may share common fields in a GraphQL API, that may not always warrant the use of an Interface type to enforce that those fields remain consistently named. Interface types are a powerful way to indicate shared behavior across the types that implement them. When used, they should be semantically meaningful to client developers, just like `Character` is a useful abstraction for humans and droids.</Callout>

## Union types

> GraphQL supports a second abstract type called a [Union type](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Unions). They share similarities with Interface types, but they cannot define any shared fields among the constituent types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL supports a second abstract type called a [Union type](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Unions). Union types share similarities with Interface types, but they cannot define any shared fields among the constituent types.
```

}
```

> The `__typename` field is a special _meta-field_ that resolves to a `String` and lets you differentiate between data types on the client.

Reviewer: I like this addition, is it worth expanding a little?

```suggestion
The `__typename` field is a special _meta-field_ that automatically exists on every Object type and resolves to the name of that type, providing a way to differentiate between data types on the client.
```

Note that `name` is still specified on `Starship` because otherwise it wouldn't show up in the results given that `Starship` is not a `Character`!

## Input Object types

Most of the examples we've covered on this page demonstrate how Object, Scalar, Enum, Interface, and Union types may be used as _output types_ for the fields in a schema. But we have also seen that field arguments must specify their _input types_. 

> So far, we've only talked about using scalar values (like Enums or String types) as an input type for a field argument. However, you can also easily pass complex objects as arguments using an [Input Object type](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Input-Objects), which is the last of named types in GraphQL that we'll explore.

Reviewer: `-easily` because we should avoid judgement of difficulty

`+kind` for precision

```suggestion
So far, we've only talked about using scalar values (like Enums or String types) as an input type for a field argument. However, you can also pass complex objects as arguments using an [Input Object type](https://spec.graphql.org/draft/#sec-Input-Objects), which is the last kind of named types in GraphQL that we'll explore.
```

> This is particularly valuable in the case of [mutations](/learn/queries/#mutations), where you might want to pass in a whole object to be created. In SDL, Input Object types look the same as regular Object types, but with the keyword `input` instead of `type`:

Reviewer: This is an issue with the previous text, but input objects don't accept arguments and can't be members of interfaces so they don't look exactly the same as objects, I think "similar to" would be more accurate?

```suggestion
This is particularly valuable in the case of [mutations](/learn/queries/#mutations), where you might want to pass in a whole object to be created. In SDL, Input Object types look similar to regular Object types, but with the keyword `input` instead of `type`:
```

In SDL, they would look like this:

```graphql
"""
A character from the Star Wars universe
"""
type Character {
  "The name of the character."
  name: String!
}

"""
The episodes in the Star Wars trilogy
"""
enum Episode {
  "Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, released in 1977." 
  NEWHOPE
  "Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, released in 1980."
  EMPIRE
  "Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, released in 1983."
  JEDI
}

"""
The query type, represents all of the entry points into our object graph
"""
type Query {
  """
  Fetches the hero of a specified Star Wars film.
  """
  hero(
    "The name of the film that the hero appears in."
    episode: Episode
  ): Character
}
```

In addition to making a GraphQL API schema more expressive, descriptions are helpful to client developers because they are available in [introspection queries](/learn/introspection/) and visible in developer tools such as [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql).

> ### Comments

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Comments
```

Reviewer: Also it may be worth demonstrating that comments can come at the end of a line?

Occasionally, you may need to add comments in a schema that do not describe types, fields, or arguments, and are not meant to be seen by clients. In those cases, you can add a single-line comment to SDL by preceding the text with a `#` character:

```graphql
# This line is treated like whitespace and ignored by GraphQL
type Character {
  name: String!
}
```

Comments may also be added to client queries:

```graphql
# { "graphiql": true }
{
  hero {
    name
    # Queries can have comments!
    friends {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

## Next steps

To recap what we've learned about schemas and types:

- Depending on what library is selected to build a GraphQL service, we can define a schema in a language-agnostic way using SDL or by compiling the schema from the code that provides data for its fields
- There are six kinds of named type definitions in GraphQL: Object, Scalar, Enum, Interface, Union, and Input Object types
- Object types contain fields that specify output types, and those fields may have arguments that specify input types
- The `Int`, `Float`, `String`, `Boolean`, and `ID` Scalar types are built into GraphQL, and you can also define your own custom scalars

> - Like Scalar types, Enum types represent leaf values in a GraphQL schema but they are limited to a finite list of values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Like Scalar types, Enum types represent leaf values in a GraphQL schema but they are limited to a finite set of values
```

- Interface and Union types are abstract types that allow different concrete Object types to be output from a single field

> - Input Object types allow you to pass more complex values into a field argument than Scalar and Enum types allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Input Object types allow you to pass more complex values into a field argument or directive argument than Scalar and Enum types allow
```

(I tried "field or directive argument" but that came across as ambiguous.)

- Type system directives can be applied to the types, fields, and arguments in a schema to alter how they are validated and executed during a query

> - GraphQL supports schema documentation using type, field, and argument descriptions, and it also supports comments that are ignored by the parser

Reviewer: The summary seems to miss the type modifiers?

Author: Good catch, this has been fixed in a new commit.
